# PWM

## Introduction

This chapter describes how to configure PWM.

The PWM driver of ROC-RK3506B-CC is `kernel/drivers/pwm/pwm-rockchip.c`

## DTS configure

There are three main steps to configure PWM: configure PWM DTS node, configure PWM kernel driver and control PWM device.

### Configure PWM DTS node

Add the PWM DTS configuration in the DTS source file `kernel/arch/arm/boot/dts/rk3506b-firefly-roc-rk3506b-cc-mipi101-BSD1218-A101KL68.dtsi`, as shown below:

```
/{
backlight: backlight {
        compatible = "pwm-backlight";
        enable-gpios = <&pca9555 PCA_IO0_1 GPIO_ACTIVE_HIGH>;
        pwms = <&pwm0_4ch_2 0 50000 1>; //pwm0_4ch_2:PWM number   0 50000:PWM period in nanoseconds  1:polarity
...
};

&pwm0_4ch_2 {
        pinctrl-names = "active";
        pinctrl-0 = <&rm_io3_pwm0_ch2>;
        status = "okay";
};
```
PWM parameter analysis:

`&pwm0_4ch_2`: defined in rk3502.dtsi.

`0`: indicates chip index, usually 0, because there is only one rockchip PWM chip per chip.

`50000`: one cycle time is 100000000 nanoseconds, there are 10 100000000 nanoseconds in one second, so the PWM output cycle is 20000Hz.

`1`: indicates polarity, 0 is normal polarity, 1 is reverse polarity.

## Interface Specification

Users can use the PWM nodes generated by the above steps in other driver files. The specific methods are as follows:

* (1) The following header files are included in the device driver files that need to be controlled by PWM :

    ```
    #include <linux/pwm.h>
    ```

	This header file mainly contains the PWM function interface.

* (2) Apply PWM

    Using:

	```
  struct pwm_device *devm_pwm_get(struct device *dev, const char *con_id);
	
	```

    Function to apply for PWM. Such as:

    ```
    struct pwm_device * pwm0 = devm_pwm_get(&pdev->dev, NULL);
    ```

* (3) Configue PWM

    Using:

    ```
    int pwm_config(struct pwm_device *pwm, int duty_ns, int period_ns);
    ```

    Configure the duty cycle of PWM, for example:

    ```
    pwm_config(pwm0, 500000, 1000000);
    ```

* (4) Enable the PWM function

    ```
    int pwm_enable(struct pwm_device *pwm);
    ```

    Used to enable PWM, for example:

    ```
    pwm_enable(pwm0);
    ```

* (5)  Control PWM output mainly uses the following interface functions:

  **function:** Used to apply for PWM

    ```
    struct pwm_device *pwm_request(int pwm_id, const char *label);
    ```

  **function:** Used to release the PWM requested

    ```
    void pwm_free(struct pwm_device *pwm);
    ```

  **function:** Used to configure the duty cycle of PWM

    ```
    int pwm_config(struct pwm_device *pwm, int duty_ns, int period_ns);
    ```

  **function:** Enable PWM

    ```
    int pwm_enable(struct pwm_device *pwm);
    ```

  **function:** Ban PWM

    ```
    void pwm_disable(struct pwm_device *pwm);
    ```

## Debug method

Check PWM registration status through the rich debug interface of the kernel, `adb shell` or serial port to enter the android terminal and execute:

```
cat  /sys/kernel/debug/pwm
```

To see if the registration was successful, the interface name and register address are returned.

## FAQs

**Q1:** Pwm could not register successfully ?<br />

**A1:**
* whether the DTS configuration file opens the corresponding PWM.
* whether the IO port where PWM is located is occupied by other resources, you can check the reason according to the error return value.
